# Audio Processing Repository Written in Python

This repository contains scripts for audio processing in Python. Below are the files and their functionalities:

## Files

### `fft.py`
- Calculates and plots the spectrogram of an audio file using the Short-Time Fourier Transform (STFT). It compares the performance of different overlap sizes for the STFT.

### `isolate_speech.py`
- Reads an audio file, normalizes the data, and applies VAD to extract speech segments. Then, it plots the audio signal, VAD results, and speech data, and saves the extracted speech to a new audio file.

### `live_fft.py`
- Records live audio and calculates the spectrogram in real-time. It uses threading to handle recording and spectrogram extraction concurrently.

### `live_transcription_0.py` (Highly unstable)
- Records live audio from a selected microphone, transcribes the audio to text using Google Speech Recognition, and prints the transcriptions in real-time.

### `live_transcription_1.py` (Highly unstable)
- Similar to `live_transcription_0.py`, it records live audio from a selected microphone, transcribes the audio to text using Google Speech Recognition, and prints the transcriptions in real-time. It also includes functions to plot audio waveforms.

### `plot_audio.py`
- Reads an audio file and plots the audio signal.

### `plot_audio_data.py`
- Reads an audio file, normalizes the data, applies VAD to extract speech segments, calculates the spectrogram, and plots the audio signal, energy, and spectrogram.

### `plot_live_audio.py`
- Records and plots live audio from a selected input device. It also saves the recorded audio to a file.

### `record_audio.py`
- Records audio from a selected microphone and saves it to a file.

### `utils.py`
- Contains utility functions for audio processing, including selecting microphones, saving audio, plotting audio, recording live audio, plotting live audio, calculating spectrograms, and applying VAD.

## Directories

### `audios/`
- Contains audio files used and generated by the scripts.

## Requirements

To run the scripts in this repository, you need to have the following dependencies installed:

- Python 3.x
- `pyaudio`: For audio recording and playback.
- `numpy`: For numerical operations.
- `matplotlib`: For plotting.
- `scipy`: For signal processing.
- `speech_recognition`: For speech-to-text transcription.

You can install these dependencies using `pip`:

```sh
pip install pyaudio numpy matplotlib scipy speechrecognition
```